
                                                    _______
                       ____                       /´  ____/\
      __ ______ _____ /   /\_ _ ______ _____ ____/   /_/___/\ __ _____ ______
   ==/  ´ ____/ __   \   ____/ ´ ____/  __  ` __    ___,  /==/  ´  ___/ __   \
  ==/   /´=/   ______/  /==/   /´=/   /==/   /=/   /=/   /==/   /´=/   ______/\
 ==/   /==/   /____/   /__/   /==/   /__/   /=/   /=/   /__/   /==/   /______\/
==/___/ ==\_______/\______/__/ ==\________,´_/   /==\______/__/ ==\________/\
==\___\/ ==\______\/\_____\__\/ ==\______/_____,´ /==\_____\___\/==\_______\/
                                         \_____\,´

================================ Introduction ================================

       Note: This document is best viewed on a 80-column VGA terminal.

The retrofire project began as a shamelessly nostalgic effort to explore the
state of graphics programming as it was in the mid-to-late 90s in the gamedev
and demoscene circles of the era, before the proliferation of hardware 3D ac-
celeration. More recently, as a result of the author's frustration when debug-
ging the earlier versions, it has grown into an experiment on using the Rust
type system to prevent several types of bugs common in graphics programming
that might normally manifest as graphical glitches or runtime panics at best.


================================= Philosophy =================================

Keeping with the do-it-yourself mentality of the demoscene and the 90s state
of software dev in general, retrofire aims to have the bare minimum number of
external dependencies. The current number of required dependencies is zero.

On the other hand, retrofire also aims to utilize the bare minimum amount of
unsafe code, and only if shown to have a measurable effect on performance by
a profiler. The current number of unsafe lines of code in retrofire is zero.

A third aim of this project, again in the demoscene spirit, is to function on
puny hardware with few or no operating system services required. To that end,
all core functionality only requires `alloc`, and components requiring `std`
are behind optional features or split into separate crates. Support for custom
allocators is planned in order to make `alloc` optional as well.


================================== Features ==================================

Done:

  * Software 3D rendering pipeline with a subpixel-precise rasterizer
  * Trait-based interpolation of arbitrary vertex attributes
  * User-definable vertex and fragment shaders, written in Rust
  * Type-tagged vector and color spaces and bases
  * Type-tagged affine transforms and projections
  * Fully customizable rasterization stage
  * Collecting rendering performance data
  * Reading and writing pnm image files
  * Cubic Bezier curves and splines
  * Simple random number generation and distributions
  * Frontend for the minifb crate

In progress:

  = Triangle mesh data structure and a library of shapes
  = Sprite and text primitives
  = Simple bitmap font support
  = Perspective-correct texture mapping
  = Spherical, cube, etc UV mapping
  = Procedural noise generation
  = Reading and writing Wavefront .obj files
  = Frontends for the sdl2 and softbuffer crates

Planned:

  - Material support
  - Different camera types
  - Basic scene graph
  - Hierarchical transforms
  - Cube mapping and skyboxes
  - Mipmapping and mipmap generation
  - More procedural generation
  - Basic animation and sequencing
  - Particle simulations
  - Support for more file types
  - Frontends for ncurses and wasm


================================ Organization ================================

retrofire is split into several crates:

  * core: math, renderer, basic utilities; no-std compatible
  * front: frontends for writing simple graphical applications
  * demos: binaries showcasing retrofire features

================================ Dependencies ================================

The minimum supported Rust version is the current stable, at least for now.

The `core` package has no external non-optional dependencies. It requires only
`alloc`, unless the optional feature `std` is enabled.

The `front` crate contains a simple window abstraction wrapping the `minifb`
crate. It can be used to write simple games and demos.

The `demos` crate contains sample applications using `front` and `minifb` to
exhibit various features of retrofire.

================================== License ===================================

Copyright 2020-2023 Johannes Dahlström. retrofire is licensed under either of:

  * Apache License, Version 2.0
    (LICENSE-APACHE or http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)

  * MIT license (LICENSE-MIT or http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

at your option.

Unless you explicitly state otherwise, any contribution intentionally submit-
ted for inclusion in the work by you, as defined in the Apache-2.0 license,
shall be dual licensed as above, without any additional terms or conditions.
